CSC425 Deliverable 2: User Research & Problem Definition Submission Template
Student Name: David Foote
 Branch Name: Deliverable2-DavidFoote
 Date Submitted: August 29, 2025
 
Target User Group
Social Media Users
 Any user of social media that have difficulties with doomscrolling.

Problem Description
Social media users spend too much time doomscrolling on their accounts. Doomscrolling can start out at simply looking at a meme that a friend sent to hours of scrolling. Many people who have this problem want to refocus their time into more meaningful tasks, but they struggle to find the motivation to pull themselves away from the screen.

Evidence of the Problem
●	According to a study in “Teens are spending nearly 5 hours daily on social media. Here are the mental health outcomes” by Tori DeAngelis, “Average number of hours a day that U.S. teens spend using seven popular social media apps, with YouTube, TikTok, and Instagram accounting for 87% of their social media time. Specifically, 37% of teens say they spend 5 or more hours a day, 14% spend 4 to less than 5 hours a day, 26% spend 2 to less than 4 hours a day, and 23% spend less than 2 hours a day on these three apps.”
●	According to a study in “Social Media and Youth Mental Health” by the U.S. Surgeon General’s Advisory, “Social media use by youth is nearly universal. Up to 95% of youth ages 13–17 report using a social media platform, with more than a third saying they use social media ‘almost constantly.’”

“How Might We” Statement
How might we convince social media users to spend less time doomscrolling?

User Persona
Name: John Smith
 Age: 19
 Occupation: Part-time restaurant worker and part-time student
 Location: Murray, KY
 Goals: Complete his bachelor’s degree
 Frustrations: Gets too absorbed into social media.
 Technology Comfort Level: Uses a smart phone.

Ethical Lens Applied
Principle: Self-regulation
●	Application: Several people have poor regulation skills and need something to pull themselves away from addictive activities.

●	Stakeholders Impacted: Social media users and social media companies

●	Professional Standard: usa.gov has several addiction support groups to help people with their addictive behaviors such as SMART Recovery.
